Add Winging It 18 (#881)
oddbird/oddleventy: content/blog/wingingit/winging-it-18.md

---
title: Take Command with Invoker
episode: 18
tags:
  - CSS
  - Polyfill
author:
  - miriam
  - james
date: 2025-04-17
length: 64 mins
image:
  src: winging-it/winging-it-18.jpg
media:
  - youtube: waip3s52BEA
summary: |
  Learn how to declaratively add behavior
  to buttons with the Invoker Commands API.
  Join James Stuckey Weber and Miriam Suzanne
  for a live conversation
  with special guest Luke Warlow,

>   web platform engineer at Igalia.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Web Platform Engineer at Igalia.
```

---

{% callout 'note', false %}
Check out our [Winging It](/wingingit/)
conversations about design, frontend,
and backend development.
{% endcallout %}

{% import "embed.macros.njk" as embed %}
{% import "utility.macros.njk" as utility %}

{{ embed.figure(
  data=media
) }}

{{ utility.main_action(
  'Subscribe to Channel »',
  subscribe_url
) }}

 ## What we cover:

> - What are invokers?
> - Why are they needed?
> - Source
> - What are the implications for accessibility?
> - How are you verifying accessibility?
> - What’s the plan for existing popover commands?
> - What are potential future built-in events?
> - Is it possible to scope the targets, rather than having unique IDs?
> - Can you send a command to multiple targets with a single click?
> - What is OpenUI? What is Igalia?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Invokers, and why they are needed
- Controlling popovers with invokers
- Controlling dialog elements with invokers
- Controlling anything with custom invoker events
- Potential future built-in events
- Polyfilling the Invokers API
- What is OpenUI?
```

## Demos:
- Examples on popover and Dialog

>   - [Popover](https://codepen.io/jamessw/pen/raaBqrw) Using existing popover* commands, port over to command*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Popover](https://codepen.io/jamessw/pen/raaBqrw) Porting existing popover attributes to `command` and `commandfor`.
```

>   - [Dialog](https://codepen.io/jamessw/pen/dPPbgLQ) Add in the command* attributes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Dialog](https://codepen.io/jamessw/pen/dPPbgLQ) 
```

>   - [Return value](https://codepen.io/jamessw/pen/qEEWQqL)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Returning a value from a dialog](https://codepen.io/jamessw/pen/qEEWQqL)
```

> - Custom events
>   - [Final](https://codepen.io/jamessw/pen/wBBwQmg)
>   - [Live](https://codepen.io/jamessw/pen/JooooPV)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Custom events- (https://codepen.io/jamessw/pen/wBBwQmg)
```
